Chicken Curry
Curries are notorious for lengthy ingredient lists to achieve the richly spiced sauces and punchy
flavours. And while we’d all love to be able to whip up a from-scratch Tikka Masala and Butter Chicken
whenever the craving hits us, it’s simply not viable.

So today, I’m sharing the best SIMPLE chicken curry that I know. This recipe is a Western style curry –
it’s not a traditional Indian curry, Thai curry, nor any other cuisine. And here’s why you’re going to
love it as much as I do:

(Very) short list of ingredients

Curry powder is the only spice you need

Creamy curry sauce with mild coconut flavour

30 minute recipe – from scratch!

What you need for Everyday Chicken Curry
Here’s what goes in this Everyday Chicken Curry.

Curry powder – the only spice you need! Any brand is fine here.

Garlic, ginger and onion – fresh aromatics add a flavour boost that makes all the difference with quick
curries! It’s the same when making quick Thai Green Curry or Red Curry using store bought paste.

Chicken broth/stock AND coconut milk – for creaminess and flavour. We’re just using 1 cup of coconut
milk here – this isn’t intended to be an overly rich, heavy coconut sauce.

Chicken – thighs are best because this curry needs to be simmered for 12 minutes for the flavours to
develop. But yes, it can be made with breast – but the steps need tweaking otherwise you’ll complain
that the chicken is dry!!

Peas – optional! Try other diced veg!

Coriander/cilantro – lovely freshness and flavour boost. Coriander haters – use chives or green onions
instead.

Curry Powders
These are the curry powders I currently have in my pantry – but I’ve used plenty of other brands in the
past. Curry powder is used in all sorts of recipes, not just Indian curries, including:

Thai Satay Chicken

Satay Chicken Curry – basically it’s chicken satay skewers in curry form, with loads of peanut sauce!

Chickpea Potato Curry – very popular with readers!

Curried Rice and Curried Sausages

Vegetable Curry and Cauliflower Curry

Singapore Noodles

Easy Thai Coconut Soup

How to make it
There’s nothing groundbreaking about how this chicken curry is made. The one key step is to fry off the
curry powder. This brightens up the flavour of the spices + creates more golden bits on the base of the
pan, and both of these things add more flavour into the curry sauce!

So don’t skip this step. 🙂

Make it your own!
This recipe is all about the curry sauce, so it’s really versatile in terms of what you can put in it,
as well as extra add ins. Here are some options:

Other proteins or vegetarian – make this with beef, lamb, pork, turkey, shrimp/prawns, fish or
vegetarian. See directions in the recipe notes;

Make it SPICY! This is not a spicy curry. So to add heat, either use HOT curry powder, or add cayenne
pepper or ground chilli powder;

Make it richer – use coconut cream instead of milk. Or use more coconut milk and simmer to reduce for
longer;

Add tomato paste to thicken the sauce a touch and make the sauce a darker colour. Use about 1.5 tbsp.

Try this curry with a side of Green Bean Salad, my friend JP’s famous Iceberg Lettuce salad, or this
no-mayo Cabbage Salad.

Ingredients
▢1.5 tbsp oil (vegetable, canola)
▢2 garlic cloves , minced
▢2 tsp ginger , grated
▢1/2 onion , finely chopped
▢500g / 1lb chicken thighs, sliced (Note 1)
▢2.5 tbsp curry powder (Note 2)
▢270 ml / 1.25 cups coconut milk , full fat (9 oz) (Note 3)
▢1.5 cups (375 ml) chicken stock low sodium
▢1/2 tsp salt
▢3/4 cup frozen peas
▢1/4 cup coriander / cilantro leaves , chopped

Instructions
1 - Heat oil in a skillet over medium high heat. Cook garlic, ginger and onion for 3 minutes until onion
is translucent.
2 - Add chicken and cook until it changes from pink to white.
3 - Add curry powder and cook for 2 minutes.
4 - Add coconut milk and chicken stock. Stir, lower heat to medium and cook, simmering rapidly, for 10
minutes until sauce reduces and thickens.
5 - Add peas and salt. Cook for a further 2 minutes, then taste to see if it needs more salt. Garnish with
coriander.
6 - Serve over rice, noodles or mashed potato!


