Chocolate Brownie

Its preferred to make it in oven, but if you don’t have the oven, lets do it in microwave.

Ingredients
Sieved Flour 3 Tablespoons
Sugar 3 Tablespoon (Ground)
Cocoa Powder 2 Tablespoon
Baking powder 1 Teaspoon
Cooking Oil Two Tablespoon
One Pinch of Salt
Milk 5 Tablespoon
Vanilla essence (Optional based on preference)
Note: Use the same Tablespoon when measuring above ingredients as mentioned otherwise you can ruin
the recipe. Only baking powder is measured using teaspoon.

Process:
Lets start with the dry ingredients, i would like to take a glass mixing bowl and add all the flour into it.

The next ingredient is sugar, I would prefer to grind it before adding it to flour so that it mixes
will in the flour with simple stir. You may use ice sugar instead, which is readily available as in
powdered form and is intended for use in baking items.

Now I will mix in cocoa powder and as well as the mentioned amount of baking powder.

Add baking powder.

Add a pinch of salt in the mixture. Like others, you may find it controversial to add salt in this
mixture, but believe me, its going to add more enhance the flavor.

After combining all above ingredients, I am going to stir it well so that the material gets a uniform
gradient look.

Now is the time to deal with the liquid ingredients in a more precise way. I am going to use plastic
spoon, the smallest one, equivalent of a teaspoon of vanilla extract. Vanilla extract is not mandatory
but I prefer it for good fragrance.

Now I will pour in oil in the mixture.

Add the milk but make sure you mix it gradually while stirring the mixture.

If you stir the mixture and milk properly, you will end up in a brown paste like shown below.
If you find that you need more milk to make it like a paste, then you can add more milk.
I got to add two more tablespoon of milk to get it like shown below.

When the paste is ready, its the time to transfer it into a temperature resistant glass bowl for baking.
When the paste is shifted to the bowl, i will shake it a little to level the paste for smooth surface.

We will bake it in the oven for 1 minute and 20 sec. When the bowl is placed in the oven, don’t cover
the pot.

After 1 and half minute, lets see what we have cooked. We got a nice looking soft texture.

Brownie should be so dried, so make sure its a little moist or wet so that when it is cooled to the
room temperature, it is not hardened.

Now we will cut it into pieces and present it in a plate and will serve it with the combination of
ice-cream of any choice.

You may also like my publication that is full of newly upcoming recipes for your kitchen.


I hope you understood the recipe and like it as well.