Napoleon Cake

Learn how to make the best Napoleon cake with this easy, bakery-style recipe. Napoleon Cake is a
beloved classic dessert known for its thin and flaky puff pastry layers and smooth, luscious pastry
cream filling in between. This Napoleon recipe is rich in flavor, light in texture, and perfect for
any occasion. I don’t claim to be a professional cake maker but if I can do this, so can you!

What is Napoleon Cake?
Napoleon Cake is a popular Eastern European dessert, often considered a variation of Mille-Feuille in
France or Cremeschnitte in Romania. Also known as Russian Napoleon Cake and French Napoleon Cake, this
Napoleon dessert features multiple thin layers of crisp, buttery layers of puff pastry dough filled
with rich, homemade diplomat cream. This cake is traditionally left to rest overnight, allowing the
cream to soften the pastry for a tender, melt-in-your-mouth texture.

Ingredients and substitutions
Puff pastry: In the words of the lovely Ina Garten, “Store-bought puff pastry is fine!” I typically
make this recipe with store-bought puff pastry. Store-bought puff pastry sheets are sold in the
refrigerator or freezer section at your local grocery store.

Egg yolks : You’ll need whole eggs, but we’ll be separating the yolks and whites for different parts
of the recipe. The egg yolks add richness to the diplomat cream, while the whipped egg whites are
folded in for lightness and structure. Be sure to use large eggs.

Sugar: Just enough sugar to satisfy your sweet tooth.

Corn starch: Corn starch helps thicken the pastry cream.

Vanilla bean pods: While vanilla pods are the classic, preferred choice for this dessert, you can
ubstitute it for two teaspoons of high-quality, pure vanilla extract or 1 Tablespoon of vanilla bean
paste.

Powdered sugar: For dusting and decoration.

Heavy cream: Use cold heavy whipping cream for best results. This helps the custard cream hold its
structure and creates a fluffy, stable texture. Avoid using light cream, condensed milk, Cool Whip,
sour cream, cream cheese, or half-and-half, which won’t whip properly.

What is diplomat cream?

Diplomat cream, also known as crème diplomate or diplomat custard, is a light, creamy filling used in
pastries and desserts like eclairs, cream puffs, and fruit tarts. It is made by combining pastry cream
(which is a thick custard made from milk, eggs, sugar, corn starch) and heavy whipping cream.
Unlike mousseline cream, which is made by combining pastry cream with softened butter (avoid cold
butter in this case), diplomat cream is lightened with heavy whipped cream for a softer, more delicate
finish.

How to make diplomat cream
The section below is a quick overview of how to make this recipe. For full details, see recipe card
below!

Cream the eggs

In a large bowl, whisk together egg yolks and sugar until light yellow in color. Then, add cornstarch
and whisk until smooth and thick.

Temper the eggs

Heat milk and vanilla in a medium saucepan over medium-low heat until steaming. Slowly add a little of
the hot milk mixture at a time to the eggs while whisking continuously.

Whisk the cream until thick

Pour the whole mixture through the sieve back into the pot. Gently whisk continuously for 5 to 7 minutes
until thickened. Remove from the heat. Add the bloomed gelatin and butter. Whisk together until combined.
While the custard is still warm, fold in the whipped egg whites until no more white is visible.

Set aside to cool

Directly cover the cream with plastic wrap to prevent a top layer of dry skin from forming. Place in
the refrigerator for a few hours until thick and chilled. Before using, give it a mix to smooth out
the texture as it will have set into a firm, thick custard.

After the custard is chilled, use a hand mixer to whip the heavy whipping cream on high speed. Fold
into same bowl as the custard until pale yellow, fluffy and thickened.

Note: Whisking the chilled custard will disrupt the gelatin but after assembling the cake and
refrigerating, it will set again.

How to make Napoleon Cake
The section below is a quick overview of how to make this recipe. For full details, see recipe index
card below!

Make the diplomat cream

See above for how to make diplomat cream. Full directions in recipe index card below.

Bake the layers

Use a rolling pin to flatten the puff pastry into a rectangle. Place the rolled out dough a baking
tray lined with a piece of parchment paper (a ‘prepared baking sheet’). Bake in a preheated oven at
425°F for 17 to 20 minutes until deep, golden brown. Press down the puff and remove the broken pieces.
Set aside for the topping later. Place the puff pastry back into the oven for an additional 5 to 7
minutes until even more golden brown and crispy.

Assemble

Cut each rectangle into two equal pieces to create thin cake layers. To assemble this layer cake,
start with one of the baked layers of puff pastry on your serving plate. Spread a generous amount of
cream on top to form one of the layers of pastry cream.

Repeat the process, alternating puff pastry and cream until you reach the next layer. Use any remaining
cream to cover the top and sides of the puff pastry cake layers. Finish by sprinkling the crushed puff
pastry pieces over the entire cake, gently pressing them into the cream for a decorative, bakery-style
finish.

Refrigerate

Cover the serving platter with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 4 to 5 hours but overnight is
best. This helps the cream set and the layers soften, making it easier to slice.

